docs: update readme to support new build system (#183)
catppuccin/gtk: README.md

  <img src="assets/res.webp"/>
</p>

This GTK theme is based on the [Colloid](https://github.com/vinceliuice/Colloid-gtk-theme) theme made by [vinceliuice](https://github.com/vinceliuice)

## Usage

### Requirements

- GTK >=3.20
- `python3`
- `gnome-themes-extra` (or `gnome-themes-standard`)

To build the theme, make sure the following packages are installed:
- `sassc`
- `inkscape`
- `optipng`

> ### Installing the theme manually

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Manual installation
```

Author: fixed

1. Download and extract the theme zip from the [latest release](https://github.com/catppuccin/gtk/releases/latest/).
2. Move the theme folder to the `~/.local/share/themes` directory.
3. Select the downloaded theme via your desktop specific tweaks application (GNOME Tweaks on GNOME 3+).
4. To theme other apps that are using GTK, make sure to run the following command:
```bash
export THEME_DIR="~/.local/share/themes/catppuccin-<flavor>-<accent>-standard+default"
mkdir -p "${HOME}/.config/gtk-4.0" && 
ln -sf "${THEME_DIR}/gtk-4.0/assets" "${HOME}/.config/gtk-4.0/assets" &&
ln -sf "${THEME_DIR}/gtk-4.0/gtk.css" "${HOME}/.config/gtk-4.0/gtk.css" &&
ln -sf "${THEME_DIR}/gtk-4.0/gtk-dark.css" "${HOME}/.config/gtk-4.0/gtk-dark.css"
```

> ###  Applying the theme on Flatpak
> In order for Flatpak to access the theme, make sure to run the following command:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
###  Flatpak

In order for Flatpak to access the theme, make sure to run the following command:
```

Author: fixed

```bash
sudo flatpak override --filesystem=$HOME/.local/share/themes
```

Then, run the following command to apply the theme.
```bash
export THEME_DIR="~/.local/share/themes/catppuccin-<flavor>-<accent>-standard+default"
sudo flatpak override --env=GTK_THEME=$THEME_DIR

### Using the install script to install the theme

To install the theme using the install script, run `install.py`:
```
python3 install.py <flavor> <accent>
```
If you have adwaita installed, make sure to include --link in order to add symlinks for it:
```
python3 install.py <flavor> <accent> --link
```
Run the command and the gtk theme should be installed!

> ### Using the AUR to install the theme

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### AUR
```

Author: fixed

We have 4 AUR packages for all the 4 flavours (Latte, Frappe, Macchiato, Mocha)

With your favourite AUR helper, you can install one of these flavors:

```bash
yay -S catppuccin-gtk-theme-<flavor>
```

> ### Using Nix

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Nix
```

Author: fixed

  <img src="assets/res.webp"/>
</p>

This GTK theme is based on the [Colloid](https://github.com/vinceliuice/Colloid-gtk-theme) theme made by [vinceliuice](https://github.com/vinceliuice)

## Usage

### Requirements

- GTK >=3.20
- `python3`
- `gnome-themes-extra` (or `gnome-themes-standard`)

To build the theme, make sure the following packages are installed:
- `sassc`
- `inkscape`
- `optipng`

### Installing the theme manually

1. Download and extract the theme zip from the [latest release](https://github.com/catppuccin/gtk/releases/latest/).

> 2. Move the theme folder to the `~/.local/share/themes` directory (skip this step if you're using the AUR package).

Reviewer 2: Not sure that this needs called out? AUR users should use their helper, not the manual steps.
```suggestion
2. Move the theme folder to the `~/.local/share/themes` directory.
```

3. Select the downloaded theme via your desktop specific tweaks application (GNOME Tweaks on GNOME 3+).
4. To theme other apps that are using GTK, make sure to run the following command:
```bash

> export THEME_DIR="~/.local/share/themes/catppuccin-<flavor>-<accent color>-standard+default"

Reviewer 2: Let's be consistent with the CLI args
```suggestion
export THEME_DIR="~/.local/share/themes/catppuccin-<flavor>-<accent>-standard+default"
```

mkdir -p "${HOME}/.config/gtk-4.0" && 
ln -sf "${THEME_DIR}/gtk-4.0/assets" "${HOME}/.config/gtk-4.0/assets" &&
ln -sf "${THEME_DIR}/gtk-4.0/gtk.css" "${HOME}/.config/gtk-4.0/gtk.css" &&
ln -sf "${THEME_DIR}/gtk-4.0/gtk-dark.css" "${HOME}/.config/gtk-4.0/gtk-dark.css"
```

###  Applying the theme on Flatpak
In order for Flatpak to access the theme, make sure to run the following command:
```bash
sudo flatpak override --filesystem=$HOME/.local/share/themes
```

Then, run the following command to apply the theme.

> ```bash
> sudo flatpak override --env=GTK_THEME=$THEME_DIR
> ```

Reviewer 2: Keeping it consistent with above.
```suggestion
```bash
export THEME_DIR="~/.local/share/themes/catppuccin-<flavor>-<accent>-standard+default"
sudo flatpak override --env=GTK_THEME=$THEME_DIR
```
```

> Make sure to export `$THEME_DIR` to where the theme is before executing the command or the theme won't work.

Reviewer 2: Now redundant.
```suggestion
```

  <img src="assets/res.webp"/>
</p>

This GTK theme is based on the [Colloid](https://github.com/vinceliuice/Colloid-gtk-theme) theme made by [Vinceliuice](https://github.com/vinceliuice)

> # Usage

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Usage
```

### Requirements

- GTK >=3.20
- `python3`
- `gnome-themes-extra` (or `gnome-themes-standard`)

> If you want to build the theme, make sure these packages are installed:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To build the theme, make sure the following packages are installed:

```

> In order to make sure you're running Python 3, run ``python --version`` and it should output ``Python 3.x.x``

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

Author: i did that already

- `sassc`
- `inkscape`
- `optipng`

> In order to make sure you're running Python 3, run ``python --version`` and it should output ``Python 3.x.x``

Reviewer 2: Don't think this needs explained, we'll ask users to run with `python3` to ensure they're on python 3. We don't care about the minor or patch versions for this usecase.
```suggestion
```

Author: alr

> In order to make sure you're running Python 3, run ``python --version`` and it should output ``Python 3.x.x``

Reviewer: Imo this isn't needed? Curious what others think.
```suggestion
```

Author: ima just leave that alone

Reviewer 3: I think most people are running python3 but it might be worth adding to the requirements above as `- python3` instead

### Installing the theme manually

> 1. Download and extract the theme zip from the [releases](https://github.com/catppuccin/gtk/releases/) page.

Author: thats better

> 2. Move the theme folder to the **~/.local/share/themes** directory (Skip this step if you're using the AUR package)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
2. Move the theme folder to the `~/.local/share/themes` directory (skip this step if you're using the AUR package).
```

Author: i think that capital is fine though

Reviewer: Text in parenthesis should be lowercase if it is in the middle/end of a sentence.

> 3. Select the downloaded theme via your desktop specific tweaks application (GNOME Tweaks on GNOME 3+)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
3. Select the downloaded theme via your desktop specific tweaks application (GNOME Tweaks on GNOME 3+).
```

4. To theme other apps that are using GTK, make sure to run the following command:
```bash

> mkdir -p "${HOME}/.config/gtk-4.0" && ln -sf "${THEME_DIR}/gtk-4.0/assets" "${HOME}/.config/gtk-4.0/assets" && ln -sf "${THEME_DIR}/gtk-4.0/gtk.css" "${HOME}/.config/gtk-4.0/gtk.css" && ln -sf "${THEME_DIR}/gtk-4.0/gtk-dark.css" "${HOME}/.config/gtk-4.0/gtk-dark.css"

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
mkdir -p "${HOME}/.config/gtk-4.0"
ln -sf "${THEME_DIR}/gtk-4.0/assets" "${HOME}/.config/gtk-4.0/assets"
ln -sf "${THEME_DIR}/gtk-4.0/gtk.css" "${HOME}/.config/gtk-4.0/gtk.css"
ln -sf "${THEME_DIR}/gtk-4.0/gtk-dark.css" "${HOME}/.config/gtk-4.0/gtk-dark.css"
```

Author: thats exactly what amy suggested

> $ mkdir -p "${HOME}/.config/gtk-4.0" && ln -sf "${THEME_DIR}/gtk-4.0/assets" "${HOME}/.config/gtk-4.0/assets" && ln -sf "${THEME_DIR}/gtk-4.0/gtk.css" "${HOME}/.config/gtk-4.0/gtk.css" && ln -sf "${THEME_DIR}/gtk-4.0/gtk-dark.css" "${HOME}/.config/gtk-4.0/gtk-dark.css"

Reviewer 3: I think this would be better for readablity if it was over multiple lines and without the $

Author: oh yeah i forgot about that

Author: ima change it

Reviewer 2: We also should include the `export` for `THEME_DIR` here, so users can more easily copy paste the commands.
```suggestion
export THEME_DIR="~/.local/share/themes/catppuccin-mocha-mauve-standard+default"
mkdir -p "${HOME}/.config/gtk-4.0" && 
ln -sf "${THEME_DIR}/gtk-4.0/assets" "${HOME}/.config/gtk-4.0/assets" &&
ln -sf "${THEME_DIR}/gtk-4.0/gtk.css" "${HOME}/.config/gtk-4.0/gtk.css" &&
ln -sf "${THEME_DIR}/gtk-4.0/gtk-dark.css" "${HOME}/.config/gtk-4.0/gtk-dark.css"
```

```

> Make sure to export `$THEME_DIR` to where the theme is before executing the command.

Reviewer 2: Needless now, it's included in the codeblock.
```suggestion
```

> ###  Applying the theme on Flatpak (Skip this step if flatpak isn't installed)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
###  Applying the theme on Flatpak
```

Author: hmmmm

Author: ig i'll remove it

> If you have Flatpak installed, make sure to execute the following commands to theme flatpak with the theme.
> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

> In order for flatpak to access the theme, make sure to run the following command:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In order for Flatpak to access the theme, make sure to run the following command:
```

```bash

> sudo flatpak override --filesystem=$HOME/.themes

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
sudo flatpak override --filesystem=$HOME/.local/share/themes
```

Author: fixing it rn

```

Then, run the following command to apply the theme.
```bash
$ sudo flatpak override --env=GTK_THEME=$THEME_DIR
```

> Again, Make sure to export `$THEME_DIR` to where the theme is before executing the command or the theme won't work.

Reviewer 2: Same idea with `THEME_DIR` here, let's get that in a codeblock.

### Using the install script to install the theme

> To install the theme using the install script, run ``install.py`` using Python with

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To install the theme using the install script, run `install.py`z;
```

```

> $ python install.py <latte, frappe, macchiato, mocha> <accent color>

Reviewer 2: As suggested earlier, change this to `python3`
```suggestion
python3 install.py <flavor> <accent>
```

```

> If you have adwaita installed, make sure to include --link in order to add symlinks for it

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If you have adwaita installed, make sure to include --link in order to add symlinks for it:
```

```

> $ python install.py <latte, frappe, macchiato, mocha> <accent color> --link

Reviewer 2: As suggested earlier, change this to `python3`
```suggestion
python3 install.py <flavor> <accent> --link
```

```
Run the command and the gtk theme should be installed!

### Using the AUR to install the theme

We have 4 AUR packages for all the 4 flavours (Latte, Frappe, Macchiato, Mocha)

With your favourite AUR helper, you can install one of these flavors:

```bash

> $ yay -S catppuccin-gtk-theme-<flavor>

Reviewer: ```suggestion
yay -S catppuccin-gtk-theme-<flavor>
```

We should avoid needlessly prefixing commands with `$` as it makes commands more difficult to copy and paste.

Author: im removing it rn

```

> ### Using Nix to install the theme

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Using Nix
```

> [!TIP]
> For further information on the options available, see the [full documentation](https://github.com/catppuccin/nix/blob/main/docs/home-manager-options.md#gtkcatppuccinenable).

> ### For Other Distros

Reviewer: Wouldn't this not be needed since the manual instructions are available above and that is what this section links to?

Author: i think so yeah

Author: fixed

> [!TIP]
> For further information on the options available, see the [full documentation](https://github.com/catppuccin/nix/blob/main/docs/home-manager-options.md#gtkcatppuccinenable).

> ### For Other Distros
> Refer to [Using the install script to install the theme](https://github.com/catppuccin/gtk/edit/refactor/build-system/README.md#installing-the-theme-manually) or [Installing the theme manually](https://github.com/catppuccin/gtk/edit/refactor/build-system/README.md#installing-the-theme-manually)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### For Other Distros

Refer to [Using the install script to install the theme](https://github.com/catppuccin/gtk/edit/refactor/build-system/README.md#installing-the-theme-manually) or [Installing the theme manually](https://github.com/catppuccin/gtk/edit/refactor/build-system/README.md#installing-the-theme-manually).
```

### Theming the GDM Theme

> In order to theme the GDM theme, install the ``gdm-settings`` app and select the Catppuccin theme and click on "Save"

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In order to theme the GDM theme, install the `gdm-settings` app, select the Catppuccin theme, and click *Save*.
```

- [rubyowo](https://github.com/rubyowo) - CI and docs
- [braheezy](https://github.com/braheezy) - Instructions for the GDM theme.

> - [Omar](https://github.com/somerand0mcat) - Improving the instructions

Reviewer: IMO one docs PR isn't really enough to add yourself to the credits 😅

Author: oh

Author: i guess i'll just remove the credit then
